WIP: Add 11.12 release notes (#251)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-07-09-mondoo-11.12-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.12-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.12 is out!

> description: Announcing the 11.12 release of Mondoo, with FOO, BAR, BAZ, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Announcing the 11.12 release of Mondoo, with a new way to track security tasks within your team's existing workflow, compliance framework management in the CLI, and more!
```

author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
image: /img/featured_img/release-feature.jpg
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

> ## 🥳 Mondoo 11.12 is out! This release includes FOO, BAR, BAZ, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🥳 Mondoo 11.12 is out! This release includes a new way to track security tasks within your team's existing workflow, compliance framework management in the CLI, and more!
```

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Track and remediate vulnerabilities with cases

Cases are a new feature of Mondoo that allow you to turn security findings into tasks to complete. They integrate with Atlassian Jira to fit into your existing workflow.

![Mondoo Case Management Screen](/img/releases/2024-07-09-mondoo-11.12-is-out/screenshot_cases.png)

When you see a security finding that requires fixing, you create a case for that finding. Mondoo automatically includes the details of the finding, information on the asset(s) that contain the finding, and instructions for fixing it. When you save the case, Mondoo automatically creates an issue containing all the same information in your Jira project.

The Jira issues that Mondoo creates from cases include all the details necessary for infrastructure owners to remediate findings, even if they don't have access to Mondoo.

In the Mondoo Console, if a security finding or an asset has a case associated with it, you can view the case from the finding or the asset. You can also see a list of all cases in a space.

> You can also close cases in the Mondoo Console. and optionally also automatically close the corresponding issue in Jira.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also close cases in the Mondoo Console and (optionally) also automatically close the corresponding issue in Jira.
```

> Open the [cases management screen](https://console.mondoo.com/space/cases) on the Mondoo console to get started, or [check out the documentation](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/maintain/jira/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the [cases management page](https://console.mondoo.com/space/cases) in the Mondoo Console to get started, or [check out the documentation](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/maintain/jira/).
```

> ### Manage compliance frameworks on the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Manage compliance frameworks in the CLI
```

Whether you're iterating on a custom compliance framework locally or automating the management of frameworks stored in source control repos, the new `cnspec framework` command makes managing frameworks a breeze. Now you can list, download, upload, and change the state of frameworks entirely on the command line.

```text
Usage:
  cnspec framework [command]

Available Commands:
  active      Change a framework status to active
  download    Download a compliance framework
  list        List available compliance frameworks
  preview     Change a framework status to preview
  upload      Upload a compliance framework

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for framework

Global Flags:
      --api-proxy string   Set proxy for communications with Mondoo API
      --auto-update        Enable automatic provider installation and update (default true)
      --config string      Set config file path (default $HOME/.config/mondoo/mondoo.yml)
      --log-level string   Set log level: error, warn, info, debug, trace (default "info")
  -v, --verbose            Enable verbose output
```

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

> ### Rocky Linux Appstream advisories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rocky Linux AppStream advisories
```

> Mondoo now includes Rocky Linux AppStream package advisories, so you can secure assets using AppStream to get the latest language and server releases with AppStream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mondoo now includes Rocky Linux AppStream package advisories, so you can secure assets that use AppStream to get the latest language and server releases.
```

### Expanded Terraform policy support

Catch critical security issues before they reach production with expanded Terraform support in the CIS AWS Foundations and CIS GCP Foundations benchmark policies.

### Resource updates

#### aws.ec2.securitygroup.ippermission

- New `prefixListIds` field
- New `userIdGroupPairs` field

#### aws.iam.policy

> - New `policyId` field to replace the now deprecated `id` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New `policyId` field to replace the now deprecated `id` field
```

#### aws.rds.dbinstance

> - New `subnets` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New `subnets` field
```

#### aws.vpc.routetable

> - New `associations` field using the new `aws.vpc.routetable.associations` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New `associations` field using the new `aws.vpc.routetable.associations` resource
```

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Add asset overview information for the `k8s-service` platform.
- Add `services` to the discovery help in `cnspec scan k8s --help`.

> - Allow users with organization permissions, but no space permissions to invite users to a space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow users with organization permissions (but no space permissions) to invite users to a space.
```

> - Improved application of the CIS GitHub benchmark policy on individual repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve application of the CIS GitHub benchmark policy on individual repositories.
```

> - Give discovered AWS ECR images a runtime value of "aws-ecr".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give discovered AWS ECR images a runtime value of `aws-ecr`.
```
